---
layout: post
title:  "ghini.pocket lets you stay away from .desktop"
date:   2018-03-27 08:52 -05:00
categories: software
---

A little piece of news worth sharing: I'm receiving smart and motivating
feedback from [Tanager](http://tanagertourism.com/), the nearby Dutch-held
garden [here in Panamá](http://gardens.ghini.me/#garden=Tanager), regarding
ghini.pocket.

The day before yesterday, we were talking (reviewing [my poster]({% post_url
2018-03-24-cuba-poster %})) and we also mentioned ghini.pocket, and while
the discussion progressed, we realized we were describing it as a mobile
data collection tool.

Loes, the Dutch lady taking care of this small pleasant spot in Azuero, she
was imagining herself finally able to combine walks in the field, taking
care of her plants, taking pictures, with effective data entry.  Only after
dark or during the heavier spells of rain, she would come back to the
desktop and in a couple of minutes import the collected data.

Let's see if you can picture yourself, too:

- you prepare accession labels, with QR code on them,
- you have a jar where you keep them,
- now you have time, so you:
  - grab a bunch of labels,
  - grab your ghini.pocket,
  - and you walk into the garden,
  - to a location in which you want to put some more order.
- choose a plant and a new label,
  - hold the label in front of the scanner,
  - ghini.pocket will tell you what you already know:
    > plant not yet in the database
  - now you enter the initial identification of the plant,
  - take a picture maybe, or several pictures,
  - and tie the label to the plant.
- iterate for next plants and labels until you have completed your planned batch.

Now whenever you like you walk back to the office and connect ghini.pocket
to ghini.desktop, and import the data you collected.

This shifts the balance garden—desk to a much more pleasant value, probably
85%—15%.

Part of it is already in place, part is waiting for me to have time to
design, write, test, distribute.